CREATE TABLE players (
    ID int,
    name VARCHAR(255),
    age INT,
    nationality VARCHAR(25),
    overall INT,
    potential INT,
    club VARCHAR(25),
    value INT,
    wage INT,
    preferredfoot varchar(10),
    jerseynumber INT,
    joined DATE,
    height VARCHAR(255),
    weight INT,
    penalties INT
);

Select * from players;

COPY players (ID, name, age, nationality, overall, potential, club, value, wage, preferredfoot, jerseynumber, joined, height, weight, penalties) FROM '/Users/Manpreet/Documents/DataAnalysis/SQL/fifa19.csv ' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER; 

ALTER TABLE players
ALTER COLUMN club TYPE VARCHAR(225);


-- How many players are there in the dataset?
Select count(*) from players;

-- How many nationalities do these players belong to?  
Select Count(distinct nationality) from players;

-- Which nationality has the highest number of players, what are the top 3 nationalities by # of players? What is the total wage given to all players?  
Select  nationality, count(*) as freq from players group by nationality order by freq desc limit 3

-- Whats the average and standard deviation?  Which player has the highest wage? Who has the lowest?  
Select name, wage from players where wage in (Select  max (wage) as min from players);
Select name, wage from players where wage in (Select  min (wage) as min from players);
Select  avg(wage) as avg, stddev(wage) as stddev from players;


-- The player having the best overall rating? Worst overall rating? 
Select name, overall from players where overall in (Select max(overall) from players);
Select name, overall from players where overall in (Select min(overall) from players);

-- Club having the highest total overall rating? Highest Average of overall rating? 
Select club, overall from players where overall in (Select max(overall) from players);
Select name, overall from players where overall in (Select (overall) from players);

Select avg(overall) from players;


-- What is the distribution of players whose preferred foot is left vs right? 
Select count(preferredfoot) as freq, preferredfoot from players group by preferredfoot;

-- Which jersey number is the luckiest?  
Select jerseynumber, sum(wage) from players group by jerseynumber order by sum(wage) desc;

-- What is the frequency distribution of nationalities among players whose club name starts with M? 
SELECT count(nationality) as freq, nationality FROM players WHERE club LIKE 'M%' group by nationality;

-- How many players have joined their respective clubs in the date range 20 May 2018 to 10 April 2019 (both inclusive)?
Select count(*) from players where joined between '20 May 2018' and '10 April 2019';

-- How many players have joined their respective clubs date wise? How many players have joined their respective clubs yearly? 
Select count(joined), joined from players group by joined;
Select count(*), DATE_PART('year', joined) AS joined_year from players group by joined_year;
